CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# How to Contribute

We'd love to accept your patches and contributions to this project. There are
just a few small guidelines you need to follow.

## Contributor License Agreement

Contributions to this project must be accompanied by a Contributor License
Agreement. You (or your employer) retain the copyright to your contribution;
this simply gives us permission to use and redistribute your contributions as
part of the project. Head over to <https://cla.developers.google.com/> to see
your current agreements on file or to sign a new one.

You generally only need to submit a CLA once, so if you've already submitted one
(even if it was for a different project), you probably don't need to do it
again.

## Code reviews

All submissions, including submissions by project members, require review. We
use GitHub pull requests for this purpose. Consult
[GitHub Help](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/) for more
information on using pull requests.

## Community Guidelines

This project follows
[Google's Open Source Community Guidelines](https://opensource.google.com/conduct/).

## Contributing code

### Prerequisites

You must install:

1.  Git
1.  Python 3.11
1.  [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
1.  [Pylint](https://pypi.org/project/pylint)
1.  [Yapf](https://github.com/google/yapf)
1.  [Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)
1.  [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/)
2.  [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk)
3.  [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/installation/)
4.  [Node JS](https://nodejs.org/) >= 18.17.x
5.  [Terraform](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/downloads) >= 1.5 (for infrastructure changes)

Then you can set up the development environment by cloning the OSV repo and
installing the Poetry dependencies.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/google/osv.dev
cd osv.dev
git submodule update --init --recursive
poetry install
poetry shell
```

### Running tests

Certain tests require you to auth with the Google Cloud SDK and to install the
Datastore Emulator:

```shell
gcloud auth login --update-adc
gcloud components install beta cloud-datastore-emulator
```

To run tests: 
```shell 
make all-tests
```

To run integration tests for the API is a separate command
```shell
make integration-tests
```

By default, this skips long tests, enable them by setting the `LONG_TESTS` variable
```shell
LONG_TESTS=1 make integration-tests
```

#### Test result generation

Many tests are written using a
[simple framework](https://github.com/google/osv.dev/blob/a4b682a32575cc3314a5ef83c8e91b70c60f7b77/osv/tests.py#L32)
to help with generating expected test outputs.

The expected outputs are generated once and saved into the source tree to run
all subsequent tests against.

If a change is made that requires these outputs to be regenerated, you can set
the environment variable `TESTS_GENERATE=1` and run the tests:

```shell
TESTS_GENERATE=1 make all-tests
```

### Linting and formatting

To lint your code, run

```shell
make lint
```

To format your code, run 
```shell 
yapf -i <file>.py
```

### Running local UI and API instances (maintainers only)

#### UI

```shell
gcloud auth login --update-adc
make run-appengine
```

#### API

Running a local instance of the API server requires the path to application
default credentials. The is required so that the ESP container has credentials 
to download API configuration.

```shell
gcloud auth login --update-adc
make run-api-server
```

## Contributing data

Data contributions are also welcome!

If you a work with a project such as a Linux distribution and would like to
contribute your security advisories, please follow these steps.

1.  Open an [issue](https://github.com/google/osv.dev/issues). Let us know about
    your project and we can help you figure out the remaining steps. Please tag
    the issue `datasource` so we can properly triage the issue.

2.  Refer to the [OSV Schema](https://ossf.github.io/osv-schema/) documentation
    for information on how to properly format the data so it can be accepted.

3.  Data can be supplied either through a public Git repository, a public GCS
    bucket or to [REST API endpoints](https://google.github.io/osv.dev/rest-api-contribution/).

## Contributing documentation

Please follow these steps to successfully contribute documentation.

1.  Fork the repository.
2.  Make desired documentation changes.
3.  Preview the changes by spinning up a GitHub page for your fork, building
    from your working branch.
    -   On your fork, go to the settings tab and then the GitHub page settings.
        Sample URL: <!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
        https://github.com/{your-github-profile}/osv.dev/settings/pages
        <!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->
    -   Under "Build and deployment" select "Build from branch"
    -   Set the branch to your working branch
    -   Set the github page to build from the "/docs" folder
    -   Hit save and wait for your site to build
    -   Once it is ready, click the link and preview the docs

![Image shows the UI settings for building the GitHub page, which is described
in step 3 of the contributing documentation
instructions.](docs/images/github-page.png)

1.  If you are satisfied with the changes, open a PR
2.  In the PR, link to your fork's GitHub page, so we can preview the changes

Commit message:

docs: add Git conventional commit requirement (#2483)
add [Git conventional
commit](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) requirement to
keep commit history clean.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# How to Contribute

We'd love to accept your patches and contributions to this project. There are
just a few small guidelines you need to follow.

## Contributor License Agreement

Contributions to this project must be accompanied by a Contributor License
Agreement. You (or your employer) retain the copyright to your contribution;
this simply gives us permission to use and redistribute your contributions as
part of the project. Head over to <https://cla.developers.google.com/> to see
your current agreements on file or to sign a new one.

You generally only need to submit a CLA once, so if you've already submitted one
(even if it was for a different project), you probably don't need to do it
again.

## Code reviews

All submissions, including submissions by project members, require review. We
use GitHub pull requests for this purpose. Consult
[GitHub Help](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/) for more
information on using pull requests.

## Community Guidelines

This project follows
[Google's Open Source Community Guidelines](https://opensource.google.com/conduct/).

## Contributing code

### Prerequisites

You must install:

1.  Git
1.  Python 3.11
1.  [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
1.  [Pylint](https://pypi.org/project/pylint)
1.  [Yapf](https://github.com/google/yapf)
1.  [Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)
1.  [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/)
2.  [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk)
3.  [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/installation/)
4.  [Node JS](https://nodejs.org/) >= 18.17.x
5.  [Terraform](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/downloads) >= 1.5 (for infrastructure changes)

Then you can set up the development environment by cloning the OSV repo and
installing the Poetry dependencies.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/google/osv.dev
cd osv.dev
git submodule update --init --recursive
poetry install
poetry shell
```

### Running tests

Certain tests require you to auth with the Google Cloud SDK and to install the
Datastore Emulator:

```shell
gcloud auth login --update-adc
gcloud components install beta cloud-datastore-emulator
```

To run tests: 
```shell 
make all-tests
```

To run integration tests for the API is a separate command
```shell
make integration-tests
```

By default, this skips long tests, enable them by setting the `LONG_TESTS` variable
```shell
LONG_TESTS=1 make integration-tests
```

#### Test result generation

Many tests are written using a
[simple framework](https://github.com/google/osv.dev/blob/a4b682a32575cc3314a5ef83c8e91b70c60f7b77/osv/tests.py#L32)
to help with generating expected test outputs.

The expected outputs are generated once and saved into the source tree to run
all subsequent tests against.

If a change is made that requires these outputs to be regenerated, you can set
the environment variable `TESTS_GENERATE=1` and run the tests:

```shell
TESTS_GENERATE=1 make all-tests
```

### Linting and formatting

To lint your code, run

```shell
make lint
```

To format your code, run 
```shell 
yapf -i <file>.py
```

### Running local UI and API instances (maintainers only)

#### UI

```shell
gcloud auth login --update-adc
make run-appengine
```

#### API

Running a local instance of the API server requires the path to application
default credentials. The is required so that the ESP container has credentials 
to download API configuration.

```shell
gcloud auth login --update-adc
make run-api-server
```

### Making commits

Please follow the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) specification for commit messages. This helps us to automate processes like changelog generation and ensures a clear and consistent commit history.

Some types: `feat:`, `fix:`, `docs:`, `chore:`, `refactor:`, and others.

## Contributing data

Data contributions are also welcome!

If you a work with a project such as a Linux distribution and would like to
contribute your security advisories, please follow these steps.

1.  Open an [issue](https://github.com/google/osv.dev/issues). Let us know about
    your project and we can help you figure out the remaining steps. Please tag
    the issue `datasource` so we can properly triage the issue.

2.  Refer to the [OSV Schema](https://ossf.github.io/osv-schema/) documentation
    for information on how to properly format the data so it can be accepted.

3.  Data can be supplied either through a public Git repository, a public GCS
    bucket or to [REST API endpoints](https://google.github.io/osv.dev/rest-api-contribution/).

## Contributing documentation

Please follow these steps to successfully contribute documentation.

1.  Fork the repository.
2.  Make desired documentation changes.
3.  Preview the changes by spinning up a GitHub page for your fork, building
    from your working branch.
    -   On your fork, go to the settings tab and then the GitHub page settings.
        Sample URL: <!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
        https://github.com/{your-github-profile}/osv.dev/settings/pages
        <!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->
    -   Under "Build and deployment" select "Build from branch"
    -   Set the branch to your working branch
    -   Set the github page to build from the "/docs" folder
    -   Hit save and wait for your site to build
    -   Once it is ready, click the link and preview the docs

![Image shows the UI settings for building the GitHub page, which is described
in step 3 of the contributing documentation
instructions.](docs/images/github-page.png)

1.  If you are satisfied with the changes, open a PR
2.  In the PR, link to your fork's GitHub page, so we can preview the changes
