gcp/api/v1/README.md, before:

# V1 API server

The API server runs on Cloud Run with Cloud Endpoints.

# GRPC and service configuration
Updates to the protobufs and service configurations require a few steps,
outlined below.

## Regenerate protobufs
```
python3 -m grpc_tools.protoc \
    --include_imports \
    --include_source_info \
    --proto_path=googleapis \
    --proto_path=. \
    --proto_path=.. \
    --descriptor_set_out=api_descriptor.pb \
    --python_out=../. \
    --grpc_python_out=../ \
    --go_out=../../../tools/indexer-api-caller/ \
    --go_opt=Mosv/vulnerability.proto=github.com/google/osv/proto \
    --go_opt=Mosv_service_v1.proto=github.com/google/osv/api/proto \
    --mypy_out=../ \
    osv_service_v1.proto
```

## Deploy service proxy
To deploy the service proxy,

### Test
```
../deploy_service_proxy oss-vdb api-test.osv.dev osv-grpc-v1-test /path/to/api_config_test.yaml
```

### Staging
```
../deploy_service_proxy oss-vdb api-staging.osv.dev osv-grpc-v1-staging /path/to/api_config_staging.yaml
```

### Production

```
../deploy_service_proxy oss-vdb api.osv.dev osv-grpc-v1 /path/to/api_config.yaml
```

### oss-vdb-test Project

Deployment is handled through terraform.

`api_descriptor.pb` is symlinked to inside `deployment/terraform/environments/oss-vdb-test/api/`,
Make any desired changes to `api_config.tftpl` in same folder.

`terraform plan` and `terraform apply` are automatically run on pushes to the master branch.

Commit message:

chore: clean up old api files (#2926)
Trying to clean up a few unused files related to the OSV API.

Our `deployment-staging` Cloud Build job isn't really doing much anymore
besides running tests. I think we might as well just use the [same job
the PRs use
instead](https://github.com/google/osv.dev/blob/474fbef9b2f1bfaffd196c08b44fc9190284b195/cloudbuild.yaml).
I've deleted the deployment-staging Cloud Build yaml file and replaced
the trigger with a `run-tests` job that runs the same PR tests.

There are two cloud endpoint configs on the production project
`api-staging.osv.dev` and `api-test.osv.dev`.
`api-staging` doesn't seem important, so I've deleted the config.

`api-test.osv.dev` is used when we run the api server locally / in tests
with ESPv2 (and I spent too long trying to work out if we can delete it
🙃). It's not automatically deployed, and I've just updated the READMEs
to point this out.
I'm not entirely sure what to do with this. For one, it should probably
live in the `oss-vdb-test` project instead of production.
Also, I'm not sure how this should be deployed. I could try managing it
through terraform, but there may be a situation where it needs to be
updated before it's merged e.g. for running tests.

gcp/api/v1/README.md, after:

# V1 API server

The API server runs on Cloud Run with Cloud Endpoints.

# GRPC and service configuration
Updates to the protobufs and service configurations require a few steps,
outlined below.

## Regenerate protobufs
```
python3 -m grpc_tools.protoc \
    --include_imports \
    --include_source_info \
    --proto_path=googleapis \
    --proto_path=. \
    --proto_path=.. \
    --descriptor_set_out=api_descriptor.pb \
    --python_out=../. \
    --grpc_python_out=../ \
    --mypy_out=../ \
    osv_service_v1.proto
```

## Deploy service proxy

Deployment is handled through terraform.

`api_descriptor.pb` is symlinked to inside `deployment/terraform/environments/oss-vdb[-test]/api/`,
Make any desired changes to `api_config.tftpl` in same folder.

`terraform plan` and `terraform apply` are automatically run on `oss-vdb-test` on pushes to the master branch.

For `oss-vdb`, terraform is run as part of the weekly release process.

## Deploy endpoints configuration for integration tests

The Cloud Endpoints service that is required for the unit tests to run is **not** automatically deployed (to allow for testing of proto changes). The testing service is `api-test.osv.dev` on the `oss-vdb` project.

The configuration for this service is located in this directory `api_config_test.yaml`. To deploy changes, use the following command:

```sh
gcloud endpoints services deploy api_descriptor.pb api_config_test.yaml --project=oss-vdb
```
