docs/data.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Data sources
permalink: /data/
nav_order: 3
---
# Data sources
{: .no_toc }

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
- TOC
{:toc}
</details>

## Current data sources

**This is an ongoing project.**
We encourage open source ecosystems to adopt the
[Open Source Vulnerability format](https://ossf.github.io/osv-schema/) to enable
open source users to easily aggregate and consume vulnerabilities across all
ecosystems. See our
[blog post](https://security.googleblog.com/2021/06/announcing-unified-vulnerability-schema.html)
for more details.

The following ecosystems have vulnerabilities encoded in this format:

-   [GitHub Advisory Database](https://github.com/github/advisory-database)
    ([CC-BY 4.0](https://github.com/github/advisory-database/blob/main/LICENSE.md))
-   [PyPI Advisory Database](https://github.com/pypa/advisory-database)
    ([CC-BY 4.0](https://github.com/pypa/advisory-database/blob/main/LICENSE))
-   [Go Vulnerability Database](https://github.com/golang/vulndb)
    ([CC-BY 4.0](https://github.com/golang/vulndb#license))
-   [Rust Advisory Database](https://github.com/RustSec/advisory-db)
    ([CC0 1.0](https://github.com/rustsec/advisory-db/blob/main/LICENSE.txt))
-   [Global Security Database](https://github.com/cloudsecurityalliance/gsd-database)
    ([CC0 1.0](https://github.com/cloudsecurityalliance/gsd-database/blob/main/LICENSE))
-   [OSS-Fuzz](https://github.com/google/oss-fuzz-vulns)
    ([CC-BY 4.0](https://github.com/google/oss-fuzz-vulns/blob/main/LICENSE))
-   [Rocky Linux](https://distro-tools.rocky.page/apollo/openapi/#osv)
    ([BSD](https://rockylinux.org/licensing))
-   [AlmaLinux](https://github.com/AlmaLinux/osv-database)
    ([MIT](https://github.com/AlmaLinux/osv-database/blob/master/LICENSE))
-   [Haskell Security Advisories](https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories)
    ([CC0 1.0](https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/blob/main/LICENSE.txt))
-   [RConsortium Advisory Database](https://github.com/RConsortium/r-advisory-database)
    ([Apache 2.0](https://github.com/RConsortium/r-advisory-database/blob/main/LICENSE))
-   [Python Software Foundation Database](https://github.com/psf/advisory-database)
    ([CC-BY 4.0](https://github.com/psf/advisory-database/blob/main/LICENSE))

## Converted data
Additionally, the OSV.dev team maintains a conversion pipeline for:

-   [Debian Security Advisories](https://storage.googleapis.com/debian-osv/index.html),
    using the conversion tools
    [here](https://github.com/google/osv.dev/tree/master/vulnfeeds/tools/debian).
-   [Alpine SecDB](https://storage.googleapis.com/cve-osv-conversion/index.html?prefix=osv-output/),
    using the conversion tools
    [here](https://github.com/google/osv.dev/tree/master/vulnfeeds/cmd/alpine).

## Covered Ecosystems
Between the data served in OSV and the data converted to OSV the following ecosystems are covered.

-   AlmaLinux
-   Alpine
-   Android
-   crates.io
-   Debian GNU/Linux
-   GitHub Actions
-   Go
-   Haskell
-   Hex
-   Linux kernel
-   Maven
-   npm
-   NuGet
-   OSS-Fuzz
-   Packagist
-   Pub
-   PyPI
-   Python
-   R (CRAN and Bioconductor)
-   Rocky Linux
-   RubyGems

## Data dumps

For convenience, these sources are aggregated and continuously exported to a GCS
bucket maintained by OSV:
[`gs://osv-vulnerabilities`](https://storage.googleapis.com/osv-vulnerabilities/index.html)

This bucket contains individual entries of the format
`gs://osv-vulnerabilities/<ECOSYSTEM>/<ID>.json` as well as a zip containing all
vulnerabilities for each ecosystem at
`gs://osv-vulnerabilities/<ECOSYSTEM>/all.zip`.

E.g. for PyPI vulnerabilities:

```bash
# Or download over HTTP via https://osv-vulnerabilities.storage.googleapis.com/PyPI/all.zip
gsutil cp gs://osv-vulnerabilities/PyPI/all.zip .
```

A list of all current ecosystems is available at
[`gs://osv-vulnerabilities/ecosystems.txt`](https://osv-vulnerabilities.storage.googleapis.com/ecosystems.txt)

## Contributing Data
If you a work with a project such as a Linux distribution and would like to contribute your security advisories, please follow the steps outlined in [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/google/osv.dev/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#contributing-data)

Data can be supplied either through a public Git repository, a public GCS bucket or to [REST API endpoints](contributing/rest-api-contribution.md).

Commit message:

Describe colon ecosystems (#2036)
Add a description of the : sub ecosystems and how we export all sub
ecosystems in one grouped ecosystem. Feel free to reword because I'm not
sure I described this very well.

---------

Co-authored-by: Oliver Chang <oliverchang@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/data.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Data sources
permalink: /data/
nav_order: 3
---
# Data sources
{: .no_toc }

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
- TOC
{:toc}
</details>

## Current data sources

**This is an ongoing project.**
We encourage open source ecosystems to adopt the
[Open Source Vulnerability format](https://ossf.github.io/osv-schema/) to enable
open source users to easily aggregate and consume vulnerabilities across all
ecosystems. See our
[blog post](https://security.googleblog.com/2021/06/announcing-unified-vulnerability-schema.html)
for more details.

The following ecosystems have vulnerabilities encoded in this format:

-   [GitHub Advisory Database](https://github.com/github/advisory-database)
    ([CC-BY 4.0](https://github.com/github/advisory-database/blob/main/LICENSE.md))
-   [PyPI Advisory Database](https://github.com/pypa/advisory-database)
    ([CC-BY 4.0](https://github.com/pypa/advisory-database/blob/main/LICENSE))
-   [Go Vulnerability Database](https://github.com/golang/vulndb)
    ([CC-BY 4.0](https://github.com/golang/vulndb#license))
-   [Rust Advisory Database](https://github.com/RustSec/advisory-db)
    ([CC0 1.0](https://github.com/rustsec/advisory-db/blob/main/LICENSE.txt))
-   [Global Security Database](https://github.com/cloudsecurityalliance/gsd-database)
    ([CC0 1.0](https://github.com/cloudsecurityalliance/gsd-database/blob/main/LICENSE))
-   [OSS-Fuzz](https://github.com/google/oss-fuzz-vulns)
    ([CC-BY 4.0](https://github.com/google/oss-fuzz-vulns/blob/main/LICENSE))
-   [Rocky Linux](https://distro-tools.rocky.page/apollo/openapi/#osv)
    ([BSD](https://rockylinux.org/licensing))
-   [AlmaLinux](https://github.com/AlmaLinux/osv-database)
    ([MIT](https://github.com/AlmaLinux/osv-database/blob/master/LICENSE))
-   [Haskell Security Advisories](https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories)
    ([CC0 1.0](https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/blob/main/LICENSE.txt))
-   [RConsortium Advisory Database](https://github.com/RConsortium/r-advisory-database)
    ([Apache 2.0](https://github.com/RConsortium/r-advisory-database/blob/main/LICENSE))
-   [Python Software Foundation Database](https://github.com/psf/advisory-database)
    ([CC-BY 4.0](https://github.com/psf/advisory-database/blob/main/LICENSE))

## Converted data
Additionally, the OSV.dev team maintains a conversion pipeline for:

-   [Debian Security Advisories](https://storage.googleapis.com/debian-osv/index.html),
    using the conversion tools
    [here](https://github.com/google/osv.dev/tree/master/vulnfeeds/tools/debian).
-   [Alpine SecDB](https://storage.googleapis.com/cve-osv-conversion/index.html?prefix=osv-output/),
    using the conversion tools
    [here](https://github.com/google/osv.dev/tree/master/vulnfeeds/cmd/alpine).

## Covered Ecosystems
Between the data served in OSV and the data converted to OSV the following ecosystems are covered.

-   AlmaLinux
-   Alpine
-   Android
-   crates.io
-   Debian GNU/Linux
-   GitHub Actions
-   Go
-   Haskell
-   Hex
-   Linux kernel
-   Maven
-   npm
-   NuGet
-   OSS-Fuzz
-   Packagist
-   Pub
-   PyPI
-   Python
-   R (CRAN and Bioconductor)
-   Rocky Linux
-   RubyGems

## Data dumps

For convenience, these sources are aggregated and continuously exported to a GCS
bucket maintained by OSV:
[`gs://osv-vulnerabilities`](https://storage.googleapis.com/osv-vulnerabilities/index.html)

This bucket contains individual entries of the format
`gs://osv-vulnerabilities/<ECOSYSTEM>/<ID>.json` as well as a zip containing all
vulnerabilities for each ecosystem at
`gs://osv-vulnerabilities/<ECOSYSTEM>/all.zip`.

E.g. for PyPI vulnerabilities:

```bash
# Or download over HTTP via https://osv-vulnerabilities.storage.googleapis.com/PyPI/all.zip
gsutil cp gs://osv-vulnerabilities/PyPI/all.zip .
```

Some ecosystems contain a `:` separator in the name (e.g. `Alpine:v3.17`). For these ecosystems, the data dump will always contain an ecosystem directory without the `:.*` suffix (e.g. `Alpine`). This will contain all the advisories of the ecosystem with the same prefix (e.g. All `Alpine:.*`).

A list of all current ecosystems is available at
[`gs://osv-vulnerabilities/ecosystems.txt`](https://osv-vulnerabilities.storage.googleapis.com/ecosystems.txt)

## Contributing Data
If you a work with a project such as a Linux distribution and would like to contribute your security advisories, please follow the steps outlined in [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/google/osv.dev/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#contributing-data)

Data can be supplied either through a public Git repository, a public GCS bucket or to [REST API endpoints](contributing/rest-api-contribution.md).
