docs/third-party.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Third Party Tools
permalink: /third-party/
nav_order: 5
---
# Third party tools
There are community tools that use OSV. Note that these are community built
tools and unsupported by the core OSV maintainers.

-   [Betterscan.io: Code Scanning/SAST/Static Analysis/Linting using many
    tools/Scanners with One Report (Code,
    IaC)](https://github.com/marcinguy/betterscan-ce)
-   [bomber](https://github.com/devops-kung-fu/bomber)
-   [Cortex XSOAR](https://github.com/demisto/content)
-   [dependency-management-data](https://dmd.tanna.dev)
-   [Dependency-Track](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/dependency-track)
-   [dep-scan](https://github.com/AppThreat/dep-scan)
-   [EZE-CLI: The one stop shop for security testing in modern development](https://github.com/RiverSafeUK/eze-cli)
-   [G-Rath/osv-detector](https://github.com/G-Rath/osv-detector): A scanner
    that uses the OSV database.
-   [GUAC](https://guac.sh)
-   [it-depends](https://github.com/trailofbits/it-depends)
-   [.NET client library and support for the schema](https://github.com/JamieMagee/osv.net)
-   [OSS Review Toolkit](https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort)
-   [Packj](https://github.com/ossillate-inc/packj)
-   [pip-audit](https://pypi.org/project/pip-audit/)
-   [Renovate](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate)
-   [rosv: an R package to access the OSV database and help administer Posit Package Manager](https://github.com/al-obrien/rosv)
-   [Rust client library](https://github.com/gcmurphy/osv)
-   [Skjold: Security audit python project dependencies against several security
    advisory databases](https://github.com/twu/skjold)
-   [Trivy](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy)
-   [IronDome: SCA scanner for Ruby applications](https://rubygems.org/gems/iron_dome)

Feel free to [send a PR](https://github.com/google/osv.dev/blob/master/docs/third-party.md) to add your project here.

Commit message:

Adding dependi to third party list

docs/third-party.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Third Party Tools
permalink: /third-party/
nav_order: 5
---
# Third party tools
There are community tools that use OSV. Note that these are community built
tools and unsupported by the core OSV maintainers.

-   [Betterscan.io: Code Scanning/SAST/Static Analysis/Linting using many
    tools/Scanners with One Report (Code,
    IaC)](https://github.com/marcinguy/betterscan-ce)
-   [bomber](https://github.com/devops-kung-fu/bomber)
-   [Cortex XSOAR](https://github.com/demisto/content)
-   [dependency-management-data](https://dmd.tanna.dev)
-   [Dependency-Track](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/dependency-track)
-   [Dependi.io: Dependency management extension for VS Code that provides package version visibility and generates vulnerability reports.](https://github.com/filllabs/dependi)
-   [dep-scan](https://github.com/AppThreat/dep-scan)
-   [EZE-CLI: The one stop shop for security testing in modern development](https://github.com/RiverSafeUK/eze-cli)
-   [G-Rath/osv-detector](https://github.com/G-Rath/osv-detector): A scanner
    that uses the OSV database.
-   [GUAC](https://guac.sh)
-   [it-depends](https://github.com/trailofbits/it-depends)
-   [.NET client library and support for the schema](https://github.com/JamieMagee/osv.net)
-   [OSS Review Toolkit](https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort)
-   [Packj](https://github.com/ossillate-inc/packj)
-   [pip-audit](https://pypi.org/project/pip-audit/)
-   [Renovate](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate)
-   [rosv: an R package to access the OSV database and help administer Posit Package Manager](https://github.com/al-obrien/rosv)
-   [Rust client library](https://github.com/gcmurphy/osv)
-   [Skjold: Security audit python project dependencies against several security
    advisory databases](https://github.com/twu/skjold)
-   [Trivy](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy)
-   [IronDome: SCA scanner for Ruby applications](https://rubygems.org/gems/iron_dome)

Feel free to [send a PR](https://github.com/google/osv.dev/blob/master/docs/third-party.md) to add your project here.
