docs/contributing/architecture.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Architecture
permalink: /architecture/
nav_order: 1
parent: Contributing
---
# Architecture

![Architecture diagram](../images/architecture.png)

## Data source

Our data is sourced from a variety of
[sources](../data.md#current-data-sources), which we are looking to expand on
over time.

OSV runs on Google Cloud Platform, with the following main components:

## Cloud Datastore

All vulnerability data is stored in [Cloud Datastore], with the [models] defined
[here].

[Cloud Datastore]: https://cloud.google.com/datastore
[models]: https://googleapis.dev/python/python-ndb/latest/index.html#defining-entities-keys-and-properties
[here]: https://github.com/google/osv/blob/master/osv/models.py

## Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)

[GKE] is used for running [workers] to perform bisects and impact analysis.
These workers consume tasks from a [Cloud Pub/Sub] topic.

Workers are Docker containers, which use [gVisor] for sandboxing untrusted
workloads.

[GKE]: https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine
[workers]: https://github.com/google/osv/tree/master/docker/worker
[gVisor]: https://gvisor.dev/
[Cloud Pub/Sub]: https://cloud.google.com/pubsub

## Cloud Run / Cloud Endpoints

The [API server] runs on [Cloud Run], and is served by [Cloud Endpoints].

[API server]: https://github.com/google/osv/tree/master/gcp/api
[Cloud Run]: https://cloud.google.com/run
[Cloud Endpoints]: https://cloud.google.com/endpoints

## App Engine

The [main web UI] runs on [App Engine]. App Engine [cron jobs] also schedule
recurring tasks for the workers, allocate OSV IDs, and make vulnerabilities
public at the appropriate times.

[main web UI]: https://osv.dev
[App Engine]: https://github.com/google/osv/tree/master/gcp/appengine
[cron jobs]: https://github.com/google/osv/blob/master/gcp/appengine/cron.yaml

Commit message:

chore: remove all remaining references to App Engine (#2895)
Fully closes #973
We've been off App Engine for a while now. Cleaned up all the stray
references to App Engine:
- renamed `gcp/appengine` to `gcp/website`
- renamed the poetry environment `appengine-backend` to
`website-backend` (you'll have to recreate the environment)
- renamed targets in Makefile `appengine` -> `website`
- moved datastore `index.yaml` to new directory `gcp/datastore`
- removed the `deployment/gae` directory
- removed App Engine-specific checks from website handlers.
  - Moved website health check endpoint from `/_ah/warmup` to `/healthz`
- Updated various docs to no longer refer to App Engine

docs/contributing/architecture.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Architecture
permalink: /architecture/
nav_order: 1
parent: Contributing
---
# Architecture

![Architecture diagram](../images/architecture.png)

## Data source

Our data is sourced from a variety of
[sources](../data.md#current-data-sources), which we are looking to expand on
over time.

OSV runs on Google Cloud Platform, with the following main components:

## Cloud Datastore

All vulnerability data is stored in [Cloud Datastore], with the [models] defined
[here].

[Cloud Datastore]: https://cloud.google.com/datastore
[models]: https://googleapis.dev/python/python-ndb/latest/index.html#defining-entities-keys-and-properties
[here]: https://github.com/google/osv/blob/master/osv/models.py

## Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)

[GKE] is used for running [workers] to perform bisects and impact analysis.
These workers consume tasks from a [Cloud Pub/Sub] topic.

Workers are Docker containers, which use [gVisor] for sandboxing untrusted
workloads.

[GKE]: https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine
[workers]: https://github.com/google/osv/tree/master/docker/worker
[gVisor]: https://gvisor.dev/
[Cloud Pub/Sub]: https://cloud.google.com/pubsub

## Cloud Run / Cloud Endpoints

The [API server] runs on [Cloud Run], and is served by [Cloud Endpoints].

[API server]: https://github.com/google/osv/tree/master/gcp/api
[Cloud Run]: https://cloud.google.com/run
[Cloud Endpoints]: https://cloud.google.com/endpoints

## Website

The [main web UI] also runs on [Cloud Run], and is served through 
[Cloud Load Balancing].

[main web UI]: https://osv.dev
[Cloud Run]: https://cloud.google.com/run
[Cloud Load Balancing]: https://cloud.google.com/load-balancing
